Sublime is still where I get all my work done. I could never get past the lag in VSCode.
I quit ST over poor typescript support - did it get any better in recent versions?
For me, the only thing I miss in LSP-TypeScript package [1] is automatic changing of import paths when you rename a file.[1]https://github.com/sublimelsp/LSP-typescript
It still isn't on par with VS code, but it has been good enough for my team.
v4 has Typescript support built in and is really good.
This was popular on HackerNews recentlyhttps://github.com/kapitanluffy/i-shamefully-paid-for-sublim...
Still love sublime for instant load times to quickly write down stuff in a cross-platform, feature-rich setting
I use it to open/edit large SQL export files and retain highlighting. It works great :)VS Code has a "text only" mode now that it will try to use for files over a certain MB filesize, but it can still be quite slow for a file with millions of lines.
Sublime Text has been my standby for years, nearly a decade actually, I have paid a couple of times. It's a fantastic piece of software for the price. 6 months ago I opened Sublime, let it update, updated packages, and nearly all the context menu options that the SideBarEnhancements added were just gone. I tracked it down to a commit labeled simply "simplify package" [1].At the time there wasn't a discussion happening regarding how to restore the lost menu items. Just a useless commit nuking things I relied on every day. I suddenly felt very.... violated? Distrustful? I know that titoBouzout owes me nothing, SideBarEnhancements is free after all, but I was reminded of the constant issues NPM has with maintaining a chain of trust. This is my core toolset, how I make my living, and I have no tolerance for things just vanishing without a reason.So I've switched to Zed. Overall it's nice. It's as responsive as Sublime was, the "feel" is there. It has decent-enough key mapping and an out-of-the-box Sublime mode, so I haven't spent too much time figuring out how to incant my favorite shortcuts. It has a much, much better Terminal, and the Copilot integration is very nice. I've had no complaints.I still have Sublime installed, but I stripped out most of the plugins and use it as a vanilla text editor. I continue to use Sublime Merge on a daily basis (literally just for point & click commit building).I guess my moral is, extendable ecosystems are amazing, but just because you paid for the core software does not mean free add-ons will be, or remain, as high quality as the core software, or even continue to exist.1 -https://github.com/titoBouzout/SideBarEnhancements/commit/d6...
ST is a brilliant editor and I really enjoyed using it until I eventually switched to VS Code as it had more useful extensions. The speed of ST is still unmatched.
Remember discovering Sublime text in high school back in 2011 for web development.Seems silly but having a lightweight, snappy application that easily allowed me to split pane and view/edit multiple documents of code in the one window felt fantasticI haven't used it for probably 10+ years now, but good memories
Sublime text is great! sublime merge is great!... Now if only there was a good sublime debugger with support for a bunch of different languages.
"Sublime Debug" would be a take-my-money product. :D
Sublime Text has always been my go-to tool for larger regex find/replace for SEO related tasks, stuff like entries in a full XML sitemap or manipulating CSV's. Snappy and clean!It was my first text editor and will always be special to me.
I'm reminded that DHH is still using textmate AFAIK. Though a lot of devs moved from textmate to sublime text back then.
He switched to Neovim when he left the Mac for Linux [1].[1]:https://world.hey.com/dhh/living-with-linux-and-android-afte...
Still no proper grammar to fold c++ properly by default?
