In my opinion, ansible only beats puppet here in ease of initial setup. I even find the equivalent puppet script for this task to be a tad bit clearer. But we're talking just syntax now. I only see now just how similar puppet and ansible (and perhaps chef too) are. What with the ensure'ing and all.Puppet is a bit difficult to setup (not too much, mind you, it does its own key generating and being a PKI on first setup just fine, and you can run it from its own internal webserver until you have to go all "webscale"), but after that it hums along nicely. Haven't had too much complaining to do.Except that they changed the string escaping rules somewhere in the 2.7.x branch, which debian of course pushed because it's in the same point release. That was fun.
Ansible has two things in its favor (of course, IMHO) when compared to puppet:It only needs to be installed on the node you're working from, not every node (by default).Dependency is determined by order in the file, not by a dependency graph.
Maybe it's me, but I found Puppet very difficult to get started with. To the point where I would happily use a less capable system that was easier to learn.
That's interesting. I was setting up a server the other day and wanted to document it in a repeatable way but, having used Chef and Anisble in the past made me not want to go through the hassle of setting up a whole "thing"...So I looked through the Puppet docs for about 5 minutes and found I could just run "Puppet apply whatever.pp" on the server and got everything working in about 15 minutes. And I'd never used it before in my life. So for now, I'm quite impressed with the ease of Puppet.Chef and Ansible both are really great for 80 to 90% of what I've needed to do in the past. But that last 10-20% isreallypainful. It requires huge contortions, or poking through the source code so that you understand the details of the system so thoroughly that you can write an new module, or abuse the existing modules and bend them to your will. I suspect that, in the end, Puppet will have the same sorts of limitations as the others. But it did have a very nice way of setting things up that didn't require a whole infrastructure.
Hmm, I haven't heard that feedback before.  I'd be very interested in hearing what the last 20% you found complicated was.   Drop me an email at michael AT ansibleworks DOT com if you like.
